# Max-MSP---Stochastic-Composition

Prob_drum_samp


A series of semi-musically related intervals are stored in the coll intervals and sent to a metro. These intervals are recalled by their index according to the result of a probability table. Either the intervals can be selected on-the-fly or the output of the table can be recorded in to another coll, seq, for 16 steps, allowing the patch to turn on/off repetition of phrases. A drum buffer is played via a 2d.wave~ with 16 rows. Every time the metro bangs, a row of the 2d.wave is played once. Which row is played is decided by a probability table calculation. The last 32 steps of this calculation can be recorded in the green coll.
The output of this patch is send to the output and also to the comb_allpass_fx sub patch.
comb_allpass_fx


Comb Filter and Allpass Filter + Yafr2 Reverb FX Chain


- Most parameters are modulated by the size of the interval between the drum hits, often deviating slightly using mc objects for a wider stereo space. The red sub-patcher is a slightly modified yafr2 reverb allowing me to feed signals to the reverb parameters.
dss
Modified version of simple DSS patch from class example.
For my DSS algorithm I replaced the Elastic Barriers with two different chaotic maps: 2 Lorenz Attractors and a Tinkerbell Map. The outputs are mapped to make the waveform.


dssSynth


This Patch contains, a rhythm generator, note generator, synthesiser and effects chain. The note triggers are generated by a Euclidean rhythm using the euclid.js by DJR. The triggers are sent to the TuringMachine, which is my implementation of a popular Eurorack module of the same name, which generates a melody constrained to a b-flat minor scale. The synth plays the melody, with the waveform dictated by DSS, via MC objects to allow for polyphony. The output is sent to an MC Allpass and Comb Filter effect chain, which is heavily modulated by the main interval time.


Sequencing


All of the sound sources have variation over time, but more drastic changes and structure is generated by a probability table which outputs a new ‘state’ for the patch every 4 bars or so.
